.TH "mtxbatch" "1" "24 Feb 2023" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
mtxbatch \- generate mtx commands to move/swap tapes

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B mtxbatch
-f <changer-device> COMMAND SOURCE TARGET [FLAGS]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Generates (and optionally runs) mtx commands to move sets of tapes
from one location to another, or to swap tapes in one location
with another set of tapes.

.SH "USAGE"
.PP
Use of mtxbatch requires specifying the tape changer device with the
.B -f
flag. Then a command must be specified, either of
.TP
.B move
Move the specified tapes from the SOURCE slots to the TARGET slots
.TP
.B swap
Move tapes from the SOURCE slots to the TARGET slots and also
move tapes from the TARGET slots to the SOURCE slots.
The swap command requires use of the
.B --use-empty
flag.
.PP
By default, the ordering of tapes will be preserved unless a
flag is given to alter the ordering.

Unless the
.B --run
flag is specified, mtxbatch will output the commands that would
need to be run, but will not call mtx. This is effectly a dry-run
by default, an also allows generating of the commands on a
machine without mtx.

.SH "SOURCE / TARGET"
.PP
Both SOURCE and TARGET may be comma delimited lists of integers
to to identify tape slots. Use of a hyphen to indicate a
range is also supported. Examples:
.IP
    1,4,7               # Three individual slots.
    5-10                # A range of six slots.
    1,10-14,17,21-23    # Mix of ranges and single slots.
    19,20-22,14,2-6     # Can be out of order, will use slot order.

.SH "FLAGS"
.TP
.B --use-empty
Only used when performing the
.B swap
command. This flags takes a slot number argument where it will temporarily place tapes while swapping. The slot number specified must be empty.
.TP
.B --allow-empty
When moving or swapping tapes, preserve any empty slots included in the command. i.e. The empty slot is "moved" as well.
.TP
.B
--reverse
Reverses tape order (first becomes last, last becomes first) while moving tapes; for the
.B swap
command, it will reverse both SOURCE and TARGET tape sets. This also works when specifying a list of tape slots/ranges for either SOURCE or TARGET.
.TP
.B --reverse-source
Similar to
.B --reverse
but only the SOURCE tapes are reversed when using the
.B swap
command.
.TP
.B --reverse-target
Similar to
.B --reverse
but only the TARGET tapes are reversed when using the
.B swap
command.
.TP
.B --run
This will have
.B mtxbatch
attempt to run each command rather than just print them to stdout.
.TP
.B --quiet
This will suppress the printing of commands to stdout.
.TP
.B --skip-run-checks
Do not perform validity checks before attempting to run mtx commands.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Print the list of commands to move a batch of tapes from one slot range (1-20) to another (51-60):
.IP
mtxbatch -f /dev/changer move 1-20 51-70
.PP
Print the list of commands to move a batch of tapes, AND run the commands as you print them:
.IP
mtxbatch -f /dev/changer move 1-20 51-70 --run
.PP
Print a list of commands to move tapes from a list of ranges to another list of ranges:
.IP
mtxbatch -f /dev/changer move 1-5,8,10-14 51-61
.PP
Print a list of command to swap tapes in one range with tapes in another range, also specifying the empty slot to use while swapping:
.IP
mtxbatch -f /dev/changer swap 6-10 21-25 --use-empty 40
.PP
Print commands to swap a list of tapes in one range with another range, and reverse the order of tapes when swapping them:
.IP
mtxbatch -f /dev/changer swap 6-10 21-25 --use-empty 40 --reverse
.PP
Run command to move a range of tapes to another range, but suppress printing out the commands being run:
.IP
mtxbatch -f /dev/changer move 1-20 51-70 --run --quiet

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Please report any bugs at <https://github.com/msu-libraries/mtxbatch>

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.PP
Copyright (c) 2018 Michigan State University Board of Trustees
.PP
Released under the Apache License 2.0

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Written by Nathan Collins <npcollins/gmail/com>

